And welcome back.
In this video we're talking about encapsulation and the concept of encapsulation is actually more interesting
and more useful and this is going to be a longer video than that of composition.
They are completely unrelated.
By the way competition and encapsulation they sound similar but they're not related at all.
Encapsulation is the hiding of the inner workings of a class when showing those inner workings is not
necessary.
That sounds like a load of crap.
So let's go over what I mean I'm going to create a new file here called in camps you lation.
And I'm going to bring back something from a previous section actually which was the Twitter logging
that we used for console applications.
So I'm going to go and open the project and go into the.
And Twitter you utils class here.
And I'm just going to copy it all.
Now surely we remember what this was about.
And we're going to need to install author tools so let's install that package you can do that.
Or you can just put in the requirements of textfile you can install a of your preferences.
As you know I'm here and the project interpreter you can just press the plus icon look for off too and
that's fine.
And instead of cons we're just going to ignore those constants for now.
OK.
What we've got here is something we called Twitter utils back in the other project.
It was essentially a file to have a consumer which defined a consumer which was our Twitter application
and that it also had a few methods we should be really executed in order request tokens should come
first.
Then we get the verifier.
Then we got the access token right.
Let's put this in a class so I can show you what encapsulation is about.
And when I create a class called Twitter console log in I'm going to put all this stuff inside it so
all I have to do is select everything and press the tab key which is beside the Q In your keyboard to
put it inside that class.
And now all of these properties are in the class are part of the class
remember the consumer.
Now is a class or are a static property.
These methods are all part of the class in order to for them to be part of the instance.
We have to put self in here like in any normal method
like so OK this method here I'm just in a fix a couple of arrows as we go along.
There's method here is inside the class.
So when you call it with self is part of the object that is calling here.
And the consumer should be part of the object as opposed to an instance.
I'm going to put it inside the unit.
So they're in it.
They're self-dual consumer.
Is that OK.
Now the init method for this class is also going to take in a consumer a key and a consumer's secret
.
So instead of getting these from Constans we would get them from a parameter.
So now we would be able to do Twitter.
Logan is a new Twitter controlled log in passing in my key and my secret for your Twitter app and theirs
would create a Twitter console log an object.
It would initialises the consumer property and they would put it all inside Twitter underscore logging
.
We know this far we know how this works.
Whenever we use the consumer we can access it using self.
That is the current object so if we do Twitter on this call log in don't get requests tocome.
What is happening really is that the Twitter log in is being passed in as the first parameter which
is self.
So what we're accessing here is Twitter and logging dot consumer which is the consumer property of this
object.
We know all this where we're looking at this.
Now I'm going to quickly remove any dependencies on constants so we can run this stuff.
I'm just going to replace the constants by the real thing
and that way we won't be having a press event.
And finally this consumer there should also be self-taught consumer.
OK.
So now we don't have any red lines which means we can potentially Brumby's now.
What would you want from this Twitter logon object.
What do we want to get out of Twitter logging.
Do we want a request token.
Do we want an author verifier.
Remember this is a console log in the author verifier is only useful really when we want to redirect
our web application to this you are.
That's why we created it.
But in a console there's method we might as well just print it out here like we do.
So what do we want from this object.
Do we want to request open run or the verifier.
No we want an access token.
That's really what we're interested in.
So why not if executing these methods is always going to be a requirement.
The requirement is always going to be that they run in order.
Why not do something like perform Twitter log in and then do request token equals self-taught get requests
still can verify are equals don't get off very far with rund quest as a parameter as it needs.
And finally return self-dual get access token without requests token and that verify.
So what we're doing here is we're calling look at requests in storing that in a variable then passing
that to the get or the verifier chapter get off very fire.
That way you'll get off very fine.
We're getting the verifier.
We're asking the user for a PIN code and then we're returning the get access token which is a dictionary
of the access token and we're passing the request or going on the verify white.
Why wouldn't we do this.
We don't care about getting a request token we don't care about getting an all verifier.
We don't care about getting an or fire rail.
We care about getting an access token.
But in order to get that we need to do these other things.
So why not put it all under one roof so that other people can then do perform Twitter logon and that's
all they have to do.
Simple.
And the answer is you should do it.
The answer in fact is you should not allow people to just get a request token because that is useless
by itself getting an or very far is useless by itself.
The only thing we care about when performing it with or logging on when accessing this object is to
get an access token.
So these other methods really shouldn't be accessible on their own.
If somebody else asks for a request token what are they going to do with it.
Get a verifier and then get an access token.
So it doesn't make sense to just get one.
We might as well only allow this method to be executed.
Unfortunately we can do that.
We can disallow them other people to call these methods and by disallowing that we simplify this object
we simplify the interactions with it and we make sure that other people other parts of the code don't
make mistakes.
That also means that if we then go and change this method for example if Twitter drops off and we'd
have to do something different we have to change this method and because everybody is calling this method
everybody's code will keep working.
Whereas if people are performing the off on their own and treat or drops off even if we change this
method to the new Twitter method because people were still doing this these methods here their code
will break.
So that's why it's important to make sure that you are only allowing those methods that make sense and
are useful.
OK so enough ranting in order to disallow methods from being cold.
Just put two underscores in front of them.
We may have seen this before and then naturally you have to put the on the school everywhere else as
well.
OK.
Now if we try to come down here and say Twitter logon don't get request.
It's no longer available.
And if we put two underscores in front and so Toula log in.
Now this is yellow it says unresolved attribute.
It no longer allows us to call them.
So now what we've done is we have encapsulated these methods and we've hidden the inner workings of
a tweet or log in and where we are only allowing is what people care about which is getting an access
token in a simple way.
Granted when they call this method we're going to be running through all the rest but they don't care
about.
So now this is a lot simpler.
The code here is encapsulated and this is good design because it means that other people and other parts
of the code won't be making mistakes.
OK.
And that's what encapsulation.
Just hiding away.
And the parts of the code that are not interesting for other code and only exposing those parts that
are what we have here essentially in this method this method now is an API.
This method is an API to interact with these other methods and get an access token.
So this method and these to some extent are all on API to interact with a Twitter API.
OK.
And by making sure that your methods and your classes use encapsulation properly and only show those
properties and methods that are required then you're going to end up with a lot nicer code.
This consumer should also be hidden.
By the way there we go OK and that's how I would go about doing that.
Make sure that everything that's not required is hidden away.
And that way when somebody goes in an implied chairman says OK what can I do with this to the console
log in thing to a in dot.
The only thing they can do is perform to the log in all these other things are built into em to Python
.
So the only exposed method is performed to log in and the init method.
So it's really simple for them to know.
OK.
It doesn't even take any parameters.
So just cold out.
That's everything for this video.
Thanks for watching.
Hope you learn something and I'll see you in the next one.